So next up we're going to look up
how we can add plugins
to our zshell.
or a particular oh-my zshell
and Oh-my zshell, makes it very, very easy
to add in additional plug-ins.
So
you can either google Oh-my zshell plugins
you should land on this page,
otherwise there'll be a link in the video that you can use.
And the description is pretty straightforward.
You edit your .zhrc that we met earlier
and there's a list of plugins
which I'll show you in a moment
and you just add into that.
Now what I do is I tend to browse down this long list.
Some of those don't make any sense to me at all.
I don't use apache-macports or archlinux
But I do recognise words like bower and brew,
bundler and cask.
So there's a bunch of things in here.
What I tend to do is just kinda scroll through these
and have a look a ones that catch my eye,
like git-extras and so on.
So there's git-hub there as well.
If you scroll down a bit more, I think earlier I saw OSX.
So when I click on that, have a read.
Decide whether or not I wanna instal it
and I'll show you how to instal it.
So, our showfiles and hidefiles are really useful
and maybe this is something I would instal.
But we're going to look at 'sublime'.
So I use sublime for my editing
and I wanna show you the plugin that it gives me.
Really straightforward.
This command 'st' opens sublime.
It can either open sublime
or open sublime on a directory or a file.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and copy the word sublime
and I'm gonna open the .zhrc file.
I can type it out again
but one of the really nice features of zshell
is I can start typing the beginning
of the command I ran earlier on in history,
if you remember history from one of the earlier videos
but now I can just cursor up.
Just doing cursor up says find me anything in the history
that begins with 'op',
the first few characters I had just there, so 'op'.
And if I just keep cursoring up,
it'll show you the different things
that I've run with 'open.'
So I opened this directory earlier
and I opened the .zshrc file.
So I can just hit that
and that's a real nice kinda little history hack.
So if you search this file for plugin,
plugins equals rather, it should just jump you to this area
and by default, we have a 'git' plugin,
which is a thing that allowed us
to see when we had dirty files
and what the repository was.
I'm just going to put in 'sublime', hit save.
Now saving doesn't reload my config in this shell.
I have to either open up another terminal window
or I have to exit this one and go back into it.
Or I can do a dot and I'll just do (inaudible) dollar
and dot will reload the file form as well.
So you do whatever you want,
but just bear in mind until you reload that shell
you're not going to have that configuration change.
So now, I should be able to type 'st'
and choose directory like
'Documents', 'jsonbin'
and hit 'Enter' and it'll open up sublime in that directory.
So I go ahead and make a change.
I could do on a specific file
and it will open up the README for me
and it's the same as kind of,
I use VI sometimes
which is kind of Text Editor version here.
But using 'sublime' to open up this is really handy.
So yeah.
Pretty cool.
But that's just a short cut rig.
One of the plugins I find really, really useful is called z
or 'z', depending on how you wanna pronounce it.
Scroll down to the bottom.
It's not even there is it.
I can't remember how I came unto it,
so maybe this is like an inside tip
and but z is
a way to quickly navigate
into different directories that you've been into recently.
So if I instal that
and I just run that source command again.
I should be able to type in 'z' and 'js'
and it should jump me into.
I think I need to populate the history.
So if I move into
'Documents',
and 'jsonbin'
It gave me an error just there.
No such directory or file, '.z'.
I think it has it now
Okay it has one.
I'm just gonna go back into maybe 'Documents' and the 'remy'
and I look at the public directory
and from here, if I type 'z' and the 'json',
what's gonna happen is, it's gonna search through my history
of directories I've been into
and it should jump me into the most recent one
that matches that strain.
So it moves me into that directory link,
you'll have to kinda navigate up and down.
If I type in 'z rem',
it should take me to remyshop.com
but not the public directory.
And then finally what I wanna show you
is zshell syntax highlighting.
So again if you watch the fish video,
you'll see that if we type a command wrong
it comes up in red.
And it's a really neat feature
and I find really useful.
We have to instal it manually.
So I'll include the link to this in the video
but we have to go ahead and instal this
and here we go,
to instal,
we clone the repo
probably didn't want to put it there
and let's move the zshell thingy into our home directory.
Just make sure it's still there.
Yup
and then next we're going to do this command
K, so now, there should be,
it should have added a line to our zshell file.
Let's just close that
and open in again and down at the bottom
you should see that's the lines being added.
I got it twice somehow
and it's only because I was doing some
preparation work earlier.
So if I open up a new tab,
now if I type, you can see I have a green text there
and you can see if I type in something that doesn't exist
I get it red.
And then if it's good then green.
So that's cool.
It means that also things like
that directory doesn't exist
and but when I type something, it does exist.
You can see it's underlined.
That's a really good visual cue
that I'm correctly typing what I'm doing
So, 'documents'
'jsonbin'
and if public,
so you can move around really easily now
And I can save from running commands incorrectly.
So if it was you know 'fi' doesn't exist
I know that because it's not even highlight green
but 'fish' does, 'fis' doesn't.
I think that 'fi' actually means
it's matching more than one thing.
So I'm hitting tab here to work my way
through all these different things.
So that was the last one there.
Definitely worth scrolling through these plugins
and having a look around.
Look in the ecosystem, checking out stuff.
Maybe use 'jira'.
You can get a 'jira' plugin.
No idea what that is.
Maybe you'll wanna try and instal that next and find out.
Great!
So that is customising your shell experience
and except the file that we've seen,
everything lives inside of this doc .zshrc file.
And if you save that and move it to another machine
then that's your whole configuration
and that's what will make it look
and feel the way that you want it to look and feel.